ADLSgen2 implementation guidance (#1)
blueww/Azurite: doc/ADLSgen2 implementation guidance.md

### Background

> Azurite is an open-source Azure Storage API compatible server (emulator). It currently supports the Blob, Queue, and Table services. We have received many customer asks on ADLSGen2 support in Azurite from many channels, include but not limited to [github issues](https://github.com/Azure/Azurite/issues/553), email, and requests from interested teams at Microsoft.

Reviewer: Correct "ADLSGen2" to "ADLS Gen2" or "Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2"

Author: will update.

> We have get 2 PRs ([PR1](https://github.com/Azure/Azurite/pull/1933), [PR2](https://github.com/Azure/Azurite/pull/1934)) submitted by the community , try to implement ADLSgen2 in Azurite. However, we can't merge them now since they might not meet our expectation and merge bar.

Reviewer: submitted by the community to implement ADLSgen2 in Azurite. However, we are unable to merge them at this time since they do not meet our expectation and merge bar.

Author: Will update.

> We have get 2 PRs ([PR1](https://github.com/Azure/Azurite/pull/1933), [PR2](https://github.com/Azure/Azurite/pull/1934)) submitted by the community , try to implement ADLSgen2 in Azurite. However, we can't merge them now since they might not meet our expectation and merge bar.

Reviewer 2: [minor] 
```suggestion
We have get 2 PRs ([PR1](https://github.com/Azure/Azurite/pull/1933), [PR2](https://github.com/Azure/Azurite/pull/1934)) submitted by the community, try to implement ADLSgen2 in Azurite. However, we can't merge them now since they might not meet our expectations and merge bar.
```

Author: Will update.

> Azurite welcome contribution. To better coorporate with community on implement ADLSGen2 in Azurite, this document gives the details of the plan we suggest to implement ADLS Gen 2 in Azurite, and our expectations for community submissions that we can accept as PRs. 

Reviewer: Azurite welcomes contributions. To better cooperate with the community on an implementation of ADLS Gen2 in Azurite

Author: Will update

### ADLSGen2 Introduction
It's very important to understand ADLSgen2 feature before implementing it in Azurite.

> [Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/data-lake-storage-introduction) (aka: AdlsGen2) is a set of capabilities dedicated to big data analytics and built on Azure Blob Storage. 

Reviewer: Remove en-us/ culture from all URLs

#### FNS vs. HNS

> A normal Azure storage account is with Flat namespace (FNS). 

Reviewer: Storage accounts can configured with a flat namespace (FNS) or a hierarchical namespace (HNS). By default, storage accounts are FNS.

Author: will update all links.

### ADLSgen2 in Azurite
#### Current status: 
<table>
<tr>  
<th></th>
<th>FNS account</th>
<th>HNS account</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Blob Endpoint API</td>
<td>Already implemented in Azurite.
  
(The customer PR1 is mostly in refine and revise blob API implementation.)</td>
<td>Not in Azurite, Phase II in below plan.
  
Behavior similar as FNS blob, but should have a little different on API, and performance different</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dfs Endpoint API</td>
<td>Not in Azurite, Phase I in below plan.
  
Support most DFS API, but some action not supported and API behavior different, and performance/atomic different</td>
<td>Not in Azurite, Phase II in below plan

Support all DFS APIs, including ACL/permission support.

(The customer PR2 is mostly on these APIs.)</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### Implementation Plan:
##### Phase I: implementation DFS API on FNS account 
1. This should be much simpler than HNS account implementation.
    1. Current Azurite is based on FNS account, so: 
        1. Don’t need to change data store structure.
        2. Don’t need Azurite user to differ HNS/FNS account.
           

> 2. The change will add all dfs API interface to Azurite, which can help to support phase II.

Reviewer: capitalize DFS

Author: Will update all DFS.

> 4. Code change should be split into several small PRs as following:

Reviewer: as follows:

Author: will update

    1. 1 PR to add dfs swagger and the auto-generated API interface (no manual change on auto generated code)
    2. 1 PR to add DFS endpoint 
    3. Several PRs to implement each dfs API (with credential handler), include testing
       

> 5. Need make sure each API behavior is aligned on rest API doc , also aligned with real Azure Server. See more in validation criteria.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Need make sure each API behavior is aligned on rest API doc, also aligned with real Azure Storage services. See more in validation criteria.
```

Author: Will update.

   
7. The blob/dfs endpoint should share same data store, talk to same instance of BlobLokiMetadataStore & BlobSqlMetadataStore
   
9. Need to work with Azure Storage SDKs to change and support new dfs port (say: 10004)
    1. E.g. .Net SDK need changes the blob/dfs Uri convert function in [this file](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/e8c40cc204b8cf750fcc820eab90d11f80612c3a/sdk/storage/Azure.Storage.Files.DataLake/src/DataLakeUriBuilder.cs#L275)
       
##### Phase II: implementation Blob/DFS on HNS account

> 1. Azurite user need configure each Azurite Account type as HNS/FNS when Azurite starts up. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Azurite users need to configure each Azurite Account type as HNS/FNS when Azurite starts up. 
```

Author: Will update.

    1. Need design how to input the config (default should be FNS)

>     2.How to handle it when user start Azurite with change account type? (Report error? )

Reviewer 2: I'll suggest Azurite doesn't support FNS/HNS migration and account type change. The storage account type is finalized after creation. A wrong configuration (like wrong HNS/FNS type) should get error reported.

```suggestion
    2. How to handle it when user start Azurite with change account type? (Report error? )
```

Author: Add to Phase II 1.iii.
